Feature/ab#259 projectbuilder documentation (#319)
starwit/lj-projectbuilder: docs/installation/development-installation.md

## Development Installation

### Prerequisites

* Java JDK 14 or later
* Maven 3
* NodeJs (16.9.1) and NPM (8.3.2) - [NodeJS Install](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
* mariaDB 10.6 (available for development via docker-compose scripts)

> * using Keycloak is optional

Reviewer: Is it? I mean there are a lot of roles and settings...

Author: for development - yes

If you need more information about installing prerequisites (ubuntu / linux mint), please check [here](prerequisites-installation.md)

### Installation Steps

> :exclamation: Each step is executed from project home directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:exclamation: Each step is executed from the project home directory.
```

> 1) go to deployment folder and start environment (database and keycloak) via docker-compose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) go to the deployment folder and start the environment (database and keycloak) via docker-compose:
```

    ```bash
    cd deployment
    docker-compose -f localenv-docker-compose.yml up
    ```

> 2) go to webclient/app and install ui

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) go to `webclient/app` and install the frontend applications dependencies
```

    ```bash
    cd webclient/app
    npm install --legacy-peer-deps
    ```

> 3) build project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) build the project
```

    ```bash

>     mvn clean install -P frontend

Reviewer: Is there the profile?

Author: ja - baust du das nicht damit???

Reviewer: Ich wusste nur, dass neulich da drüber geredet hatten. Deswegen wollte ich nochmal nachfragen. Ich lasse das immer mit npm und dem Server laufen

Author: > Ich wusste nur, dass neulich da drüber geredet hatten. Deswegen wollte ich nochmal nachfragen. Ich lasse das immer mit npm und dem Server laufen

Das solltest du immer mitlaufen lassen. Mind. vor dem Erstellen des PRs. Es wird ja auch so deployt.

>     ```bash
>     mvn clean install -P frontend
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```bash
    cd ../..
    mvn clean install -P frontend
    ```
```

Author: nee steht drüber, dass das home Verzeichnis gemeint ist

Reviewer: Okey, im eifer des Gefächts könnte das aber evtl unter gehen :)

4) start project

    ```bash
    java -jar application/target/application-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
    ```
    You can also run the main-class via Visual Studio Code.

* **Project Builder can be reached under http://localhost:8081/ljprojectbuilder/**
* **If you are using keycloak:**
    * **default user/password is admin/admin**
    * **keycloak can be reached under http://localost:8081/auth**

### Debugging

#### Frontend Debugging

For debugging, you can start the frontend separately.

```shell
cd webclient/app
npm start
```
NPM server starts under localhost:3000/ljprojectbuider/ by default

> ! If you are using the installation with keycloak, make sure you are logged in before using - just go to localhost:8081/ljprojectbuilder in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
! Make sure you are logged in before using the Application - just go to localhost:8081/ljprojectbuilder in your browser to log in.
```

> ! If you are using the installation with keycloak, make sure you are logged in before using - just go to localhost:8081/ljprojectbuilder in your browser.

Author: ```suggestion
! If you are using the installation with keycloak, make sure you are logged in before first usage - just go to localhost:8081/ljprojectbuilder in your browser.
```

#### Backend Debugging

> You can start the spring boot application in debug mode. See Spring Boot documentation for futher details. The easiest way is, to use debug functionality integrated in your IDE like VS code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can start the spring boot application in debug mode. See Spring Boot documentation for further details. The easiest way is, to use debug functionality integrated with your IDE like VS Code.
```

### MariaDB Client

The database is available under localhost:3006

```
Username:ljprojectbuilder
Database:ljprojectbuilder
Password:ljprojectbuilder
```

> MySQLWorkbench is recommended to access database for development purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Wieso nicht?

Reviewer: Man könnte auch andere Programme nehmen. Funktionieren auch gut. Ein besseres Wording wäre, dass MYSQLWorkbench ein vorschlag wäre und keine empfehlung

Author: > Man könnte auch andere Programme nehmen. Funktionieren auch gut. Ein besseres Wording wäre, dass MYSQLWorkbench ein vorschlag wäre und keine empfehlung

Ich empfehle das! ;-) Das ist jetzt aber auch etwas wortglauberisch...

### Starting without keycloak

> If you want to start your application without keycloak connection, you need to change spring boot profile to dev in application\src\main\resources\application.properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to start your application without keycloak, you need to change spring boot profile to dev in application\src\main\resources\application.properties.
```

Reviewer: ... or with a flag I currently do not know at the moment ;)
